# Artificial information

Artificial information sets provide software engineers and business analysts
with information that share some of the characteristics of real information
while not using any real information such as of real people, real processes,
real devices, etc.

This artificial information does not contain any actual doctor records, any
actual patient records, any actual device records, or any other actual records.
 We are piloting this new
service with a limited number of artificial data sets.

## United Kingdom (UK) National Health Service (NHS) Digital

<https://digital.nhs.uk/services/artificial-data>

The artificial information in this repository thus far is thanks to the United
Kingdom (UK) National Health Service (NHS) Digital team. We are piloting this
new service with a limited number of artificial data sets.

## UK NHS Digital artificial data generator

<https://github.com/NHSDigital/artificial-data-generator>

This artificial information is created by the UK NHS Digital "artificial data
generator", which provides pipelines for generating large volumes of anonymous
artificial data that share some of the characteristics of real UK NHS data.

## UK NHS Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) Data Dictionary

<https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/data-tools-and-services/data-services/hospital-episode-statistics/hospital-episode-statistics-data-dictionary>

The UK NHS HES Data Dictionary is a Technical Output Specification document
containing detailed information of all the fields available in HES for: admitted
patients,  outpatients, accident and emergency, critical care, mortality, etc.
This document is fundamental for anyone using HES data, where users can see
which fields are available to use and the associated definition, format,
availability, and valid values for these fields.

## UK NHS Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) Data Model

file:///Users/jph/Downloads/Hospital+Episode+Statistics+(HES)+Data+Model+v1.0.pdf

The UK NHS HES Data Dictionary is a visual representation of the UK NHS HES Data
Dictionary. The visual representation shows tables and fields, including
identification of primary and secondary keys for linking between tables. This
visual representation is similar to an entity-relelationship diagram (ERD) and
similar to a database schema diagram.

## What are sample sets versus full sets?

This repository contains sample sets that are small subsets of the much-larger full sets.

* Artificial Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) Accident & Emergency (A&E) sample

* Artificial Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) Admitted Patient Care sample

* Artificial Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) Outpatient sample

If you want the full sets, please download them from the NHS Digital website.

<https://digital.nhs.uk/services/artificial-data>

## About the UK NHS Digital pilot

We hold over 200 healthcare data sets. These data sets are fundamental for
analysis and research to accelerate the discovery of new treatments and helping
the NHS to plan better services.

We are piloting this new service to help users understand the columns, data
types and approximate value ranges that would appear in real data. Whilst our
data sets can be used to improve understanding of data sets and data platforms,
and for building and testing data pipelines, they cannot be used to analyse
data.

They can be used in advance or, for certain use cases, instead of real data
which is only approved to requestors where there is an appropriate legal basis.
This reduces bottlenecks for new users of data and data platforms and minimises
the amount of personal data being processed for specific tasks.

This artificial data represents the formatting, structure and volume of the
original data set. It does not preserve relationships between fields.

## Anticipated benefits

Anticipated benefits of artificial information for software engineering users,
statistical analysis users, and other users include:

* Artificial information can be used to develop and test software and analyses,
  without accessing real data.

* Users can collaborate and share artificial information across different
  environments where real data is not accessible.

* Artificial data can be used for teaching purposes to train the next generation
  of data engineers, scientists, and clinicians.

## About Hospital Episode Statistics (HES)

Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) is a curated data product containing details
about admissions, outpatient appointments and historical accident and emergency
attendances at NHS hospitals in England.
